
Something needs to be said about the inverse correlation between empathy and success. I don’t know if it’s necessarily causation, but there’s definitely a loose inverse correlation, at least in today’s capitalist-styled society.
A common harbinger of success seems to be your ability to single-mindedly pursue it, even at the expense of people around you. It’s possible to achieve success by standing on the shoulders of giants, but it’s a lot easier to just squash them like bugs. At least, that’s the way the world seems set up to function.
Back to the inverse correlation: if it is, in fact, easier to achieve success by stealing it from other people, then that would require a lack of empathy.
The end result of that is I’m going to need to figure out how to obtain success despite my empathic nature. Although it’s possible that a firmer understanding of the narrative might help me here—might allow me to use empathy as a tool in controlling the narrative. Not a weapon. A tool.
The question becomes: is this a case where it’s going to be harder to achieve the same goals, but because of that, the grasp will be firmer? Or is it just fucked all the way—harder to achieve the same level of success, and only possible to maintain a tenuous grasp on it because, for yet another reason, I do not line up with preconceived notions of what a successful person should be?
I don’t think this precludes me from being successful. But it’s definitely one of the things I’m going to have to focus my energies on—figuring out how to make that aspect fit into the narrative of success.​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​