They say cleanliness is next to godliness. This is patently untrue. Accuracy and efficiency are next to godliness. Cleanliness comes a distant third at best.
This is because it’s only really necessary to give about 60 or 70% on cleanliness in order to not really affect the world too much. If I forget to shower one day, at worst somebody is going to be offended for a moment, but on average, nobody even notices. If I don’t clean my dishes for two days, perhaps there would be some ants. The world doesn’t change.
The important thing about these statements is that they can be applied to scale as well. If everyone in the continental United States did not take a shower tomorrow, very little would change about the world, other than perhaps some confusion at water treatment plants and perhaps a slightly more uncomfortable bus ride here or there. If everyone in the world did not do their dinner dishes after dinner tonight until tomorrow night, very little about the world would change. If everybody in Europe did not vacuum for an entire week, very little would change.
Of course, there will always come a point where it becomes a serious problem, but that threshold very often does not occur for at least several missed instances of cleanliness.
Now, efficiency and accuracy—everyone knows the trouble that a single lie, a single accidental omission, or a single small error in mathematics can expand itself into given just a small amount of time. Inaccuracy, whether by omission, intentional or not, can be one of the most dangerous situations of all.
As far as importance goes, I think cleanliness falls far behind.