There’s something here. Not sure exactly what. Definitely something close to Douglas Adams and The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy. I assume his personal beliefs line up with the fictional world he created. He calls it The Question. The answer to life, the universe, and everything is, rather famously in this situation, 42. But he claims that the question and the answer cannot exist at the same time in the same universe.
This brings the first real question about the thing: whether or not other people are aware of the thing I’m talking about. From my experience, it definitely seems like some people are at the very least aware of its existence, even if they do not have the ability to define what it is better than I do.
But if this is the case, then why aren’t more people talking about this?
As far as I can tell, there are a few options.
The first is the view Douglas Adams appears to be taking: that the question is a mechanically forbidden piece of information, that due to the nature of reality, it’s impossible for someone living inside a closed system to fully understand the system because that would take an outside view. It’s totally impossible to pose the question and the answer at the same time in the same universe.
The second option is the paranoid one: that of a metaphorical, or perhaps even literal, secret society. Probably not literally, of course. The idea that it’s not just something people talk about, like the call of the void or airline food—I don’t know, no one talks about airline food. That’s probably a bad example. This option by itself would be unlikely, although it certainly might be the most interesting if it were to be true.
The third option is more of a subset of the previous: the idea that whatever knowledge this is, it is either incredibly persuasive to the goal of keeping it to oneself, or for some reason, the acquisition of said knowledge prevents you from sharing it. The idea that the entire world was run, for example, by a group of hyper-intelligent extra-dimensional beings who appeared to us as common mice, and that the whole world up until this point had been a very complex social experiment—no matter the truth of that statement, it would be very difficult to get anyone to believe me. And that’s assuming the mice didn’t effectively threaten my existence upon discovering I’d revealed their secrets.
This, however, being a possibility, will not stop me from attempting to discover what it is I’m trying to find.
The final option here is unfortunately equally likely: that there is nothing. This determination would be very unfortunate and against my beliefs, but still necessary to determine.
And so, as a bonus, a postscript: there is an additional option that there is an answer, and that I’m just, for whatever reason—be it intelligence, motivation, available technology, whatever—unable to determine it. This would be the most unfortunate of all, as then this entire exercise would be a waste of my time.