Men opening doors for women—and I suppose probably women opening doors for men, although I can’t say I’ve ever seen that one in practice very often—this is definitely one of those things for which intent is nine-tenths of the meaning.
Some people, some men, will open the door, especially for a woman, and they do it for reasons of courtesy. I’m not talking about if a woman is approaching a door and it would be convenient. I’m talking about getting out of their car and insisting that the lady does not open her own door, as they walk around to open it on her behalf, and then repeat the process in reverse when getting in the car, where they rush ahead so they can open the door for her.
To be clear, I’m not hating on people who do this, because as I mentioned, intent is nine-tenths. Without knowing people’s intent, I can’t judge. Shouldn’t judge anyway, but I definitely can’t without knowing intent in this situation. There are genuinely people who do it because of a sense of chivalry or just a sense that it’s a man’s job to do so. I mean, that’s your relationship dynamic between you and your partner. It’s none of my business. I’m glad it makes you happy.
But that’s only one of three possibilities.
The second option, unfortunately, is people who do it intentionally to be degrading—or, if not intentionally, who do it in a way that is degrading. They do it because they feel like they’re better. They do it because they want the advantage in the situation, or want to exert a show of dominance by controlling that aspect of the situation.
The third option is where I stand. And it’s very much like the previous option, only flipped on its head. I do believe that it’s a show of power or control. I do believe that it’s demeaning, almost infantilizing.
For an example: if I were to go to a restaurant on a date with a lady, and she were to order a steak, upon it arriving I would go and run over and take it out of her hands, cut it into bite-sized pieces, and leave it in front of her. This would in social circles be considered odd.
You might say, “Well, great, that’s not the same thing. Those are not the same level. One of these is obviously a lot more crazy than the other.”
And you would be right.
But I would argue that a good bit of that difference is because society has normalized the opening of doors as part of a man’s job, but has never normalized the cutting of steak because it’s a man’s job—even though the cutting of meat with sharp instruments is arguably a more dangerous task.​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​