I think the most dangerous lie we tell ourselves is the concept of meritocracy. The worst part about meritocracy is that we've convinced ourselves it's a good thing. We've convinced ourselves that it's something we want in society. That it's generally good for us. But here's the problem. We use meritocracy to mean that the best person gets the job. We use it to mean that hard work pays off, but that's not what it's actually describing. To go back to its roots, Michael Young first used the term in 1958 in a satirical novel. He intended for it to be a warning, not a blueprint. 

The thing that everybody seems to misunderstand is this. People think that meritocracy means that everybody is going to get judged fairly and based on their ability. But that's not what it actually means. What it actually means is that there's a system of power that consolidates in the hands of people who have been deemed meritorious by the people already in power. This is a problem. So the question we have to ask is why does it persist? It persists because acknowledging the truth would require the people that are in power to admit that they haven't earned their position. It would mean that the people in power can't say, "I'm successful because I'm smart and worked hard." And sure. Maybe they are smart. Maybe they did work hard. But they were smart and worked hard in nice schools that their parents could afford. They were smart and worked hard in stable houses. Not having to work a second job to help their family eat. 

The myth of meritocracy persists because of two reasons. Firstly, it allows people to feel good about success without actually looking too hard at the structure that enabled them. And number two, it provides a moral framework to blame poor people for being poor. We love blaming poor people for being poor. Because if success is purely merit based, then any failure must be a failure at the personal level. That's great, right? So what happens if we get it right? If we actually understood that a meritocracy is not possible in an equitable system, because merit is defined by people who have power. People that have power define merit by using criteria that favor people exactly like themselves, because that's how in-groups work. If we understood that, then we'd have to redesign the whole thing. We'd have to admit that growing up in a stable household with tutors and counselors and lots of time to study didn't necessarily mean they worked harder than their counterpart having to work at McDonald's in high school to pay their family's bills. We'd have to admit that getting into Harvard isn't just about being smart. Although, that's a large part of it, but another huge part is about having access to the systems and preparations that allow you access to Harvard. We'd have to stop pretending that CEOs that make 300 times what a regular worker makes make it because they work 300 times harder. 

But that's the point, right? People don't want to get it right. If we got it right, we'd admit that the game is rigged. And if you're winning a rigged game, why would you want to change the rules? And if you're losing a rigged game, you don't want to admit that you're wrong.